mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
start with an equilateral triangle
construct a row of four congruent
equilateral triangles
connect the leftmost vertex of the first
triangle
to the top vertex of the fourth triangle
then consider the region above this line
contained within the first three
triangles
if a single equilateral triangle has an
area equal to six
what is the area of the region shaded in
yellow
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
to begin connect a line segment between
the top four vertices of these
equilateral triangles
because the equilateral triangles are
congruent
corresponding sides will be parallel to
each other
therefore the large triangle in yellow
will be similar
to the middle triangle in yellow and it
will be similar to the smallest triangle
in yellow
suppose each equilateral triangle has a
side length equal to s
then this is equal to s this is equal to
s and this side is also equal to s
thus the side lengths will be in parts
of three
the middle triangle will have a side
length that's equal to two thirds
multiplied by s
and the smallest triangle will have a
side length that's equal to one third
multiplied by s now construct one more
equilateral triangle
this side length will also be equal to s
the line segments going the other way
will be in parts of
four so the largest triangle in yellow
will have a side length this way that's
equal to three over four multiplied by s
the middle triangle will be equal to two
over four multiplied by s
and the smallest will be one over four
multiplied by
s from here we will calculate the area
of the largest
triangle shown in yellow now because
each triangle is an equilateral triangle
this will be 60 degrees so its area will
be one half
multiplied by s multiplied by three over
multiplied by s multiplied by the sine
of the angle between it which is 60
degrees
now sine of 60 degrees is equal to the
square root of 3 over 2.
thus this simplifies to be the following
we also have the area of a single
equilateral triangle
is equal to six and that's equal to s
squared over four
multiplied by the square root of three
thus we can substitute in
six for that part and we get the area of
the large yellow triangle
is equal to 3 over 4 multiplied by 6
which is equal to 4.5
from here the similarity factor between
the largest
and the next largest triangle is 2 over
three
so their areas will be in the square of
that
so we have four point five multiplied by
two over three squared
the smallest triangle has a similarity
ratio of one over three
so its area will be the square of 1 over
3 multiplied by 4.5
we can thus calculate the area of each
triangle
once we do that we add up these areas
and we get the answer
is equal to seven
thanks for making us one of the best
communities on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
[Music]
you